README.md, before:

# HandyJSON

HandyJSON is a framework written in Swift which to make converting model objects(classes/structs) to and from JSON easy on iOS.

Compared with others, the most significant feature of HandyJSON is that it does not need the objects inherit from NSObject(**not using KVC but reflection**), neither implements a 'mapping' function(**use pointer to achieve property assignment**).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/alibaba/HandyJSON.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/alibaba/HandyJSON)
[![Cocoapods Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/HandyJSON.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/HandyJSON)
[![Cocoapods Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/HandyJSON.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/HandyJSON)
[![Codecov branch](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/alibaba/HandyJSON/master.svg?style=flat)](https://codecov.io/gh/alibaba/HandyJSON/branch/master)

## [中文文档](http://www.jianshu.com/p/cbed87d8656d)

## Sample Code

### Deserialization

```
struct Animal: HandyJSON {
    var name: String?
    var height: Double?
}

let json = "{\"name\": \"Tom\", \"height\": 25.0}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Animal>.deserializeFrom(json: json) {
    print(cat)
}
```

### Serialization

```
class Animal {
    var name: String?
    var height: Double?

    init(name: String, height: Double) {
        self.name = name
        self.height = height
    }
}

let cat = Animal(name: "cat", height: 25.0)

print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: cat)!)
print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: cat, prettify: true)!)
```

# Content

- [Features](#features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
    - [Cocoapods](#cocoapods)
    - [Carthage](#carthage)
- [Deserialization](#deserialization)
    - [The Basics](#the-basics)
    - [Optional, ImplicitlyUnwrappedOptional, Collectiones and so on](optional-implicitlyunwrappedoptional-collectiones-and-so-on)
    - [Designated Path](#designated-path)
    - [Composition Object](#composition-object)
    - [Inheritance Object](#inheritance-object)
    - [Custom Mapping](#custom-mapping)
    - [Supported Property Type](#supported-property-type)
- [Serialization](#serialization)
    - [The Basics](#the-basics)
    - [Complex Object](#complex-object)
- [Compatibility](#compatibility)
- [To Do](#to-do)

# Features

* Serialize/Deserialize Object/JSON to/From JSON/Object (classes and structs)

* Support almost all types in Swift

* Naturally use object property name for mapping, no need to specify a mapping relationship

* Custom transformations for mapping

* Type-Adaption, such as string json field maps to int property, int json field maps to string property

# Requirements

* iOS 8.0+/OSX 10.9+/watchOS 2.0+/tvOS 9.0+

* Swift 2.3+ / Swift 3.0+

# Installation

**To use with Swift 2.x using == 0.4.0**

**To use with Swift 3.x using >= 1.1.0**

For Legacy Swift support, take a look at the [swift2 branch](https://github.com/alibaba/HandyJSON/tree/master_for_swift_2x)

## Cocoapods

Add the following line to your `Podfile`:

```
pod 'HandyJSON', '~> 1.1.0'
```

Then, run the following command:

```
$ pod install
```

## Carthage

You can add a dependency on `HandyJSON` by adding the following line to your `Cartfile`:

```
github "alibaba/HandyJSON" ~> 1.1.0
```

# Deserialization

## The Basics

To support deserialization from JSON, a class/struct need to conform to 'HandyJSON' protocol. It's truly protocol, not some class inherited from NSObject.

To conform to 'HandyJSON', a class need to implement an empty initializer.

```
class Animal: HandyJSON {
    var name: String?
    var id: String?
    var num: Int?

    required init() {}
}

let jsonString = "{\"name\":\"cat\",\"id\":\"12345\",\"num\":180}"

if let animal = JSONDeserializer<Animal>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(animal)
}
```

For struct, since the compiler privide a default empty initializer, we use if for free.

```
struct Animal: HandyJSON {
    var name: String?
    var id: String?
    var num: Int?
}

let jsonString = "{\"name\":\"cat\",\"id\":\"12345\",\"num\":180}"

if let animal = JSONDeserializer<Animal>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(animal)
}
```

But also notice that, if you have a designated initializer to override the default one in the struct, you should explicitly declare an empty one.

## Optional, ImplicitlyUnwrappedOptional, Collections and so on

'HandyJSON' support classes/structs composed of `optional`, `implicitlyUnwrappedOptional`, `array`, `dictionary`, `objective-c base type`, `nested type` etc. properties.

```
struct Cat: HandyJSON {
    var id: Int64!
    var name: String!
    var friend: [String]?
    var weight: Double?
    var alive: Bool = true
    var color: NSString?
}

let jsonString = "{\"id\":1234567,\"name\":\"Kitty\",\"friend\":[\"Tom\",\"Jack\",\"Lily\",\"Black\"],\"weight\":15.34,\"alive\":false,\"color\":\"white\"}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Cat>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(cat)
}
```

## Designated Path

`HandyJSON` supports deserialization from designated path of JSON.

```
struct Cat: HandyJSON {
    var id: Int64!
    var name: String!
}

let jsonString = "{\"code\":200,\"msg\":\"success\",\"data\":{\"cat\":{\"id\":12345,\"name\":\"Kitty\"}}}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Cat>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString, designatedPath: "data.cat") {
    print(cat.name)
}
```

## Composition Object

Notice that all the properties of a class/struct need to deserialized should be type conformed to `HandyJSON`.

```
struct Component: HandyJSON {
    var aInt: Int?
    var aString: String?
}

struct Composition: HandyJSON {
    var aInt: Int?
    var comp1: Component?
    var comp2: Component?
}

let jsonString = "{\"num\":12345,\"comp1\":{\"aInt\":1,\"aString\":\"aaaaa\"},\"comp2\":{\"aInt\":2,\"aString\":\"bbbbb\"}}"

if let composition = JSONDeserializer<Composition>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(composition)
}
```

## Inheritance Object

A subclass need deserialization, it's superclass need to conform to `HandyJSON`.

```
class Animal: HandyJSON {
    var id: Int?
    var color: String?

    required init() {}
}


class Cat: Animal {
    var name: String?

    required init() {}
}

let jsonString = "{\"id\":12345,\"color\":\"black\",\"name\":\"cat\"}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Cat>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(cat)
}
```

## Custom Mapping

`HandyJSON` let you customize the key mapping to JSON fields, or parsing method of any property. All you need to do is implementing an optional `mapping` function, do things in it.

```
class Cat: HandyJSON {
    var id: Int64!
    var name: String!
    var parent: (String, String)?

    required init() {}

    func mapping(mapper: HelpingMapper) {
        // specify 'cat_id' field in json map to 'id' property in object
        mapper.specify(property: &id, name: "cat_id")

        // specify 'parent' field in json parse as following to 'parent' property in object
        mapper.specify(property: &parent, converter: { (rawString) -> (String, String) in
            let parentNames = rawString.characters.split{$0 == "/"}.map(String.init)
            return (parentNames[0], parentNames[1])
        })
    }
}

let jsonString = "{\"cat_id\":12345,\"name\":\"Kitty\",\"parent\":\"Tom/Lily\"}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Cat>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(cat)
}
```

## Supported Property Type

* `Int`/`Bool`/`Double`/`Float`/`String`/`NSNumber`/`NSString`

* `NSArray/NSDictionary`

* `Int8/Int16/Int32/Int64`/`UInt8/UInt16/UInt23/UInt64`

* `Optional<T>/ImplicitUnwrappedOptional<T>` // T is one of the above types

* `Array<T>` // T is one of the above types

* `Dictionary<String, T>` // T is one of the above types

* Nested of aboves

# Serialization

## The Basics

You need to do nothing special to support serialization. Define the class/struct, get the instances, then serialize it.

```
class Animal {
    var name: String?
    var height: Int?

    init(name: String, height: Int) {
        self.name = name
        self.height = height
    }
}

let cat = Animal(name: "cat", height: 30)
print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: cat)!)
print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: cat, prettify: true)!)
```

## Complex Object

Still need no extra effort.

```
enum Gender: String {
    case Male = "male"
    case Female = "Female"
}

struct Subject {
    var id: Int64?
    var name: String?

    init(id: Int64, name: String) {
        self.id = id
        self.name = name
    }
}

class Student {
    var name: String?
    var gender: Gender?
    var subjects: [Subject]?
}

let student = Student()
student.name = "Jack"
student.gender = .Female
student.subjects = [Subject(id: 1, name: "math"), Subject(id: 2, name: "English"), Subject(id: 3, name: "Philosophy")]

print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: student)!)
print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: student, prettify: true)!)
```

# To Do

* Support non-object (such as basic type, array, dictionany) type deserializing directly

* Improve error handling

# License

HandyJSON is released under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See LICENSE for details.

Commit message:

add the manually installation section

README.md, after:

# HandyJSON

HandyJSON is a framework written in Swift which to make converting model objects(classes/structs) to and from JSON easy on iOS.

Compared with others, the most significant feature of HandyJSON is that it does not need the objects inherit from NSObject(**not using KVC but reflection**), neither implements a 'mapping' function(**use pointer to achieve property assignment**).

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/alibaba/HandyJSON.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/alibaba/HandyJSON)
[![Cocoapods Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/HandyJSON.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/HandyJSON)
[![Cocoapods Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/HandyJSON.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/HandyJSON)
[![Codecov branch](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/alibaba/HandyJSON/master.svg?style=flat)](https://codecov.io/gh/alibaba/HandyJSON/branch/master)

## [中文文档](http://www.jianshu.com/p/cbed87d8656d)

## Sample Code

### Deserialization

```
struct Animal: HandyJSON {
    var name: String?
    var height: Double?
}

let json = "{\"name\": \"Tom\", \"height\": 25.0}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Animal>.deserializeFrom(json: json) {
    print(cat)
}
```

### Serialization

```
class Animal {
    var name: String?
    var height: Double?

    init(name: String, height: Double) {
        self.name = name
        self.height = height
    }
}

let cat = Animal(name: "cat", height: 25.0)

print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: cat)!)
print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: cat, prettify: true)!)
```

# Content

- [Features](#features)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation](#installation)
    - [Cocoapods](#cocoapods)
    - [Carthage](#carthage)
    - [Manually](#manually)
- [Deserialization](#deserialization)
    - [The Basics](#the-basics)
    - [Optional, ImplicitlyUnwrappedOptional, Collectiones and so on](optional-implicitlyunwrappedoptional-collectiones-and-so-on)
    - [Designated Path](#designated-path)
    - [Composition Object](#composition-object)
    - [Inheritance Object](#inheritance-object)
    - [Custom Mapping](#custom-mapping)
    - [Supported Property Type](#supported-property-type)
- [Serialization](#serialization)
    - [The Basics](#the-basics)
    - [Complex Object](#complex-object)
- [Compatibility](#compatibility)
- [To Do](#to-do)

# Features

* Serialize/Deserialize Object/JSON to/From JSON/Object (classes and structs)

* Support almost all types in Swift

* Naturally use object property name for mapping, no need to specify a mapping relationship

* Custom transformations for mapping

* Type-Adaption, such as string json field maps to int property, int json field maps to string property

# Requirements

* iOS 8.0+/OSX 10.9+/watchOS 2.0+/tvOS 9.0+

* Swift 2.3+ / Swift 3.0+

# Installation

**To use with Swift 2.x using == 0.4.0**

**To use with Swift 3.x using >= 1.1.0**

For Legacy Swift support, take a look at the [swift2 branch](https://github.com/alibaba/HandyJSON/tree/master_for_swift_2x)

## Cocoapods

Add the following line to your `Podfile`:

```
pod 'HandyJSON', '~> 1.1.0'
```

Then, run the following command:

```
$ pod install
```

## Carthage

You can add a dependency on `HandyJSON` by adding the following line to your `Cartfile`:

```
github "alibaba/HandyJSON" ~> 1.1.0
```

## Manually

You can integrate `HandyJSON` into your project manually by doing the following steps:

* Open up `Terminal`, `cd` into your top-level project directory, and add `HandyJSON` as a submodule:

```
git init && git submodule add https://github.com/alibaba/HandyJSON.git
```

* Open the new `HandyJSON` folder, drag the `HandyJSON.xcodeproj` into the `Project Navigator` of your project. 

* Select your application project in the `Project Navigator`, open the `General` panel in the right window.

* Click on the `+` button under the `Embedded Binaries` section.

* You will see two different `HandyJSON.xcodeproj` folders each with four different versions of the HandyJSON.framework nested inside a Products folder.
> It does not matter which Products folder you choose from, but it does matter which HandyJSON.framework you choose.

* Select one of the four `HandyJSON.framework` which matches the platform your Application should run on.

* Congratulations!

# Deserialization

## The Basics

To support deserialization from JSON, a class/struct need to conform to 'HandyJSON' protocol. It's truly protocol, not some class inherited from NSObject.

To conform to 'HandyJSON', a class need to implement an empty initializer.

```
class Animal: HandyJSON {
    var name: String?
    var id: String?
    var num: Int?

    required init() {}
}

let jsonString = "{\"name\":\"cat\",\"id\":\"12345\",\"num\":180}"

if let animal = JSONDeserializer<Animal>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(animal)
}
```

For struct, since the compiler privide a default empty initializer, we use if for free.

```
struct Animal: HandyJSON {
    var name: String?
    var id: String?
    var num: Int?
}

let jsonString = "{\"name\":\"cat\",\"id\":\"12345\",\"num\":180}"

if let animal = JSONDeserializer<Animal>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(animal)
}
```

But also notice that, if you have a designated initializer to override the default one in the struct, you should explicitly declare an empty one.

## Optional, ImplicitlyUnwrappedOptional, Collections and so on

'HandyJSON' support classes/structs composed of `optional`, `implicitlyUnwrappedOptional`, `array`, `dictionary`, `objective-c base type`, `nested type` etc. properties.

```
struct Cat: HandyJSON {
    var id: Int64!
    var name: String!
    var friend: [String]?
    var weight: Double?
    var alive: Bool = true
    var color: NSString?
}

let jsonString = "{\"id\":1234567,\"name\":\"Kitty\",\"friend\":[\"Tom\",\"Jack\",\"Lily\",\"Black\"],\"weight\":15.34,\"alive\":false,\"color\":\"white\"}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Cat>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(cat)
}
```

## Designated Path

`HandyJSON` supports deserialization from designated path of JSON.

```
struct Cat: HandyJSON {
    var id: Int64!
    var name: String!
}

let jsonString = "{\"code\":200,\"msg\":\"success\",\"data\":{\"cat\":{\"id\":12345,\"name\":\"Kitty\"}}}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Cat>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString, designatedPath: "data.cat") {
    print(cat.name)
}
```

## Composition Object

Notice that all the properties of a class/struct need to deserialized should be type conformed to `HandyJSON`.

```
struct Component: HandyJSON {
    var aInt: Int?
    var aString: String?
}

struct Composition: HandyJSON {
    var aInt: Int?
    var comp1: Component?
    var comp2: Component?
}

let jsonString = "{\"num\":12345,\"comp1\":{\"aInt\":1,\"aString\":\"aaaaa\"},\"comp2\":{\"aInt\":2,\"aString\":\"bbbbb\"}}"

if let composition = JSONDeserializer<Composition>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(composition)
}
```

## Inheritance Object

A subclass need deserialization, it's superclass need to conform to `HandyJSON`.

```
class Animal: HandyJSON {
    var id: Int?
    var color: String?

    required init() {}
}


class Cat: Animal {
    var name: String?

    required init() {}
}

let jsonString = "{\"id\":12345,\"color\":\"black\",\"name\":\"cat\"}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Cat>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(cat)
}
```

## Custom Mapping

`HandyJSON` let you customize the key mapping to JSON fields, or parsing method of any property. All you need to do is implementing an optional `mapping` function, do things in it.

```
class Cat: HandyJSON {
    var id: Int64!
    var name: String!
    var parent: (String, String)?

    required init() {}

    func mapping(mapper: HelpingMapper) {
        // specify 'cat_id' field in json map to 'id' property in object
        mapper.specify(property: &id, name: "cat_id")

        // specify 'parent' field in json parse as following to 'parent' property in object
        mapper.specify(property: &parent, converter: { (rawString) -> (String, String) in
            let parentNames = rawString.characters.split{$0 == "/"}.map(String.init)
            return (parentNames[0], parentNames[1])
        })
    }
}

let jsonString = "{\"cat_id\":12345,\"name\":\"Kitty\",\"parent\":\"Tom/Lily\"}"

if let cat = JSONDeserializer<Cat>.deserializeFrom(json: jsonString) {
    print(cat)
}
```

## Supported Property Type

* `Int`/`Bool`/`Double`/`Float`/`String`/`NSNumber`/`NSString`

* `NSArray/NSDictionary`

* `Int8/Int16/Int32/Int64`/`UInt8/UInt16/UInt23/UInt64`

* `Optional<T>/ImplicitUnwrappedOptional<T>` // T is one of the above types

* `Array<T>` // T is one of the above types

* `Dictionary<String, T>` // T is one of the above types

* Nested of aboves

# Serialization

## The Basics

You need to do nothing special to support serialization. Define the class/struct, get the instances, then serialize it.

```
class Animal {
    var name: String?
    var height: Int?

    init(name: String, height: Int) {
        self.name = name
        self.height = height
    }
}

let cat = Animal(name: "cat", height: 30)
print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: cat)!)
print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: cat, prettify: true)!)
```

## Complex Object

Still need no extra effort.

```
enum Gender: String {
    case Male = "male"
    case Female = "Female"
}

struct Subject {
    var id: Int64?
    var name: String?

    init(id: Int64, name: String) {
        self.id = id
        self.name = name
    }
}

class Student {
    var name: String?
    var gender: Gender?
    var subjects: [Subject]?
}

let student = Student()
student.name = "Jack"
student.gender = .Female
student.subjects = [Subject(id: 1, name: "math"), Subject(id: 2, name: "English"), Subject(id: 3, name: "Philosophy")]

print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: student)!)
print(JSONSerializer.serializeToJSON(object: student, prettify: true)!)
```

# To Do

* Support non-object (such as basic type, array, dictionany) type deserializing directly

* Improve error handling

# License

HandyJSON is released under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See LICENSE for details.
